Title: «About brackets»
Author: «Andrew J. Young»

-- Begin essay -----------------------------------------------------------------

It seems a little odd that anybody should write about a topic like « brackets ».
But there are lots of odd topics, and amongst them this stands out as especially
mundane, especially under appreciated, and especially important.

What I talk about when I talk about brackets is not the curved marks on a page;
it's not the square ones, or the curly ones either. Brackets are everywhere,
whether we like it or not. Brackets are how we split up and make sense of
sentences. The phrase Royal Oak Lodge means something different if we mean a
lodge in Royal Oak, or a royal lodge made of oak. Some languages out there may
require a bit more grammar to clear up the meaning, but in English, the bracket
is king.

So let's show some examples first, and then figure out what's happening.

________________________________________________________________________________

-- Brackets --------------------------------------------------------------------

These are really quite simple. Usually brackets are parenthetic, meaning that
they make a little "aside" comment about what the text is talking about. Because
these are a kind of subtext to what's happening in the main article, brackets
are used to clearly mark where these parentheses begin and end.

-- Speech ----------------------------------------------------------------------

Speech is similar: it is separate from the main discussion. But more than this,
speech marks have some meaning in them: they show that the text is spoken. In
many other cases, they show that speech happens as-is. This means that we can
record the sounds that somebody makes, not just the meaning of what they say. It
means that we can write things like «ooh», «aah», and «aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah», that
we can record dialects, and even sounds like laughing quietly (which in the
international phonetic alphabet is written as «˚m ˚m ˚m».

This is similar to syntactic brackets. When I say the title of a play is «Romeo
and Julliet», the reader understands that the title is this collection of words.
The title may even be a small sentence of its own. But, it is all contained
within brackets.

-- Question marks and exclamation marks ----------------------------------------

In English, this is harder to see. But, questions have clearly defined
beginnings and end, and can even occur mid sentence, ¿right? In languages like
Spanish, this is clearly marked with an opening (¿) and closing question mark
(?): a form of bracket.

-- Clearing up meaning ---------------------------------------------------------

This is different to other bracketing because it's showing the order in which
concepts apply to words in a sentence. If we take an example, The Royal Oak
Lodge, it changes our understanding of this name if it is a lodge in the town of
Royal Oak, or an oak lodge made for a king or queen. Understanding how these
words combine is important to our understanding of the sentence they are in, and
can be clearly marked with brackets! So we can be sure that The Royal (Oak
Lodge) is indeed made of oak. Or, if it's neither royal nor oak, we might just
take it at face value to be a name with no deeper meaning, and no brackets.
________________________________________________________________________________

But brackets can occur in more types than this, and in more ways. With the
exception of clearing up meaning, all the brackets we mentioned are showing that
some passage of text (that has a start and an end) should be treated in the
same way, and perhaps somehow specially. This helps us know if it's a question,
a quote, a name, or otherwise. Bracketing is the power to show all of this.

We could be more flexible, making up a bracket that shows text is meant to be
whispered, so that the reader *doesn't make a sound*. ¡We can make up all the
brackets we want! (as long as the reader knows what we meant).

We should embrace the power of the bracket, and give it its full respect in
writing. We should mark where they start and end, and we should accept that
using language is to bracket, and that bracketing is a whole lot more flexible
than we tend to use it.

A boring tool that produces great and interesting things should be treated like
a paintbrush, not like a nail.

------------------------------------------------------------------- End essay --

